README.md, before:

## RAINIER - Randomizer of Assorted Initial Nuclear Intensities and Emissions of Radiation

#### The code is described in following paper:
L.E.Kirsch, L.A.Bernstein. RAINIER: A simulation tool for distributions of excited nuclear states and cascade fluctuationsNIM A. Volume 892, 2018, Pages 30-40

## Abstract:
A new code has been developed named RAINIER that simulates the $\gamma$-ray decay of discrete and quasi-continuum nuclear levels for a user-specified range of energy, angular momentum, and parity including a realistic treatment of level spacing and transition width fluctuations. A similar program, DICEBOX, uses the Monte Carlo method to simulate level and width fluctuations but is restricted to $\gamma$-ray decay from no more than two initial states such as de-excitation following thermal neutron capture. On the other hand, modern reaction codes such as TALYS and EMPIRE populate a wide range of states in the residual nucleus prior to $\gamma$-ray decay, but do not go beyond the use of deterministic functions and therefore neglect cascade fluctuations. This combination of capabilities allows RAINIER to be used to determine quasi-continuum properties through comparison with experimental data. Several examples are given that demonstrate how cascade fluctuations influence experimental high-resolution $\gamma$-ray spectra from reactions that populate a wide range of initial states. 

DOI:  	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2018.02.096
See the arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04006

## Installation and usage:
Fork/clone this repository or download zipfiles and extract to `/path/to/RAINIER`, eg. in your home folder

A) Location independent usage:

 * Set the environment variable `RAINIER_PATH`; To do this, execute the following in terminal, or save in `.bashrc` / `.bash_profile`. *Remember* to restart the terminal, such that the variable is actually exported!
    
    ```
    export RAINIER_PATH=/path/to/RAINIER
    ```
  * Check that you have `expect` installed, eg by writing `man expect` in a terminal. If not, install `expect`, eg. by `sudo apt-get install expect` or see https://core.tcl.tk/expect/index?name=Expect#unix 

 * `cd` to `sample_folder` or create a `settings.h` file using this sceleton

    ```
    cd /path/to/RAINIER/sample_folder
    /path/to/RAINIER/runRAINIER.sh
    ```

 * You might need to give you the permissions to execute the expect script:

    ```
    chmod u+x /path/to/RAINIER/runRAINIER.sh
    ```

B) Running the code "directly":
First, make sure that there is a settings `settings.h` file in the RAINIER directory (you may copy it from `sample_folder`)
Run following line in bash

      root RAINIER.C++

After the simulations are done you may enter following line within the root session to gain access to the Analysis script:

    .L Analyze.C++; // load the separate analysis file
    RetrievePars(); // linking files is always wonky in ROOT

### Running the Analysis script separately:
Run in the directory with your simulation results:

    root /path/to/Analyze.C++
Followed, for example by `AnalyzeGamma()`

Commit message:

Update location independent run of RAINIER
Updated how we can run RAINIER location independent. Now the code is copied to the folder where you want to run it. Shared libraries are created in you sample folder, so several different folders/examples can be run simultaneously if needed. (Wasn't sure what happens if the shared library gets overwritten in 817f5136e9a8d8a1e25d9b7204cc9dfb4a4ac06a).

README.md, after:

## RAINIER - Randomizer of Assorted Initial Nuclear Intensities and Emissions of Radiation

#### The code is described in following paper:
L.E.Kirsch, L.A.Bernstein. RAINIER: A simulation tool for distributions of excited nuclear states and cascade fluctuationsNIM A. Volume 892, 2018, Pages 30-40

## Abstract:
A new code has been developed named RAINIER that simulates the $\gamma$-ray decay of discrete and quasi-continuum nuclear levels for a user-specified range of energy, angular momentum, and parity including a realistic treatment of level spacing and transition width fluctuations. A similar program, DICEBOX, uses the Monte Carlo method to simulate level and width fluctuations but is restricted to $\gamma$-ray decay from no more than two initial states such as de-excitation following thermal neutron capture. On the other hand, modern reaction codes such as TALYS and EMPIRE populate a wide range of states in the residual nucleus prior to $\gamma$-ray decay, but do not go beyond the use of deterministic functions and therefore neglect cascade fluctuations. This combination of capabilities allows RAINIER to be used to determine quasi-continuum properties through comparison with experimental data. Several examples are given that demonstrate how cascade fluctuations influence experimental high-resolution $\gamma$-ray spectra from reactions that populate a wide range of initial states. 

DOI:    https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2018.02.096
See the arXiv: https://arxiv.org/abs/1709.04006

## Installation and usage:
Fork/clone this repository or download zipfiles and extract to `/path/to/RAINIER`, eg. in your home folder

A) Location independent usage:

 * Set the environment variable `RAINIER_PATH`; To do this, execute the following in terminal, or save in `.bashrc` / `.bash_profile`. *Remember* to restart the terminal, such that the variable is actually exported!
    
    ```shell
    export RAINIER_PATH=/path/to/RAINIER
    ```

 * `cd` to `sample_folder` or create a `settings.h` file using this sceleton

    ```shell
    cd /path/to/RAINIER/sample_folder
    ../runRAINIER.sh, #or $RAINIER_PATH/runRAINIER.sh, if you create it in a different location
    ```

Possible error messages:
 * You might need to give you the permissions to execute the expect script:

    ```shell
    chmod u+x /path/to/RAINIER/runRAINIER.sh
    ```


B) Running the code "directly":

* First, make sure that there is a settings `settings.h` file in the RAINIER directory
Run following line in bash

      root -l RAINIER.C++

* If the environment variable RAINIER_PATH if not set, RAINIER will be executed, but the analysis script is not loaded. The error message will look like

    ```
    Error in <TRint::ProcessLine>: macro Analyze.C not found in path .:/home/fabiobz/Downloads/CERN_root/build_root-6.10.08/macros
    input_line_31:2:3: error: use of undeclared identifier 'RetrievePars'
    (RetrievePars())
    ```  
   You can solve this "by hand".  After the simulations are done you may enter following line within the root session to gain access to the Analysis script:

      .L Analyze.C++; // load the separate analysis file
      RetrievePars(); // linking files is always wonky in ROOT


### Running the Analysis script separately:
Run in the directory with your simulation results:

    root /path/to/Analyze.C++
Followed, for example by `AnalyzeGamma()`
